---
title: "N-Back - a brain training exercise - does it work?"
description: "Exploring the science and implementation of n-back tasks for cognitive training"
tag: Life
ogimage: "preview_n_back.png"

---

N-back is a cognitive training exercise that has gained significant attention in the field of cognitive psychology and brain training. This post will explore what n-back is, its scientific basis, and its potential benefits for cognitive enhancement.

### What is N-Back?

N-Back is a brain training activity which is supposed to increase your working memory. If you know me, you would know that I am pretty insecure about my intelligence (I blame the stars). So naturally I am motivated to try out this game. A game when played daily improving intelligence is huge, I think. But there is not much evidence or data on the internet about N-Back. I would like to document my journey through N-Back in this blog so it can help others too.

I have been playing N-Back since January 2025 at least six times a week. Every day I try to play 12 rounds. One round can mean different things on different apps - in the current app that I'm playing on, which is called 'N-Back Memory Training' by E.A.L. - it has 23 different placements of sound and position of dual-2-back. 

### The Science Behind N-Back

[Discussion of the cognitive processes involved]

### Anectodal evidence
I am going to summarise what I have learnt in the past 5-6 months. If I notice a change in the upcoming months, I will probably document it in a more detailed way than I am going to do for the past 6 months because it's already done and I did not have this blog post at that time. 

- Conversations have definitely become more fluid. I seem to now have a lot of things to say before I run out, which was not the case earlier. 
- When I do N-Back at night, I seem to have more vivid dreams. 
- It might have improved my recall. Though, about this, I'm not entirely sure. Don't know how to test this.*
- 



* - Note that I consider myself as someone with a weak memory, so even if it's able to help me reach the average level of memory or maybe push me up by a bit, it would be huge for me. 


### Implementation

[Technical details and implementation considerations]

### Conclusion

[Summary and final thoughts]
